README.rst, before:

====================
python-rtkit
====================
`Best Practical RT`_ (Request Tracker) data access python module for REST interface.

This is your survey example:

Installation
================

Rest Api Summary
================
More detailed version: `Request Tracker Wiki`_

::

 [01][-W] Create ticket                     | ticket/new
 [02][RW] Read/Update ticket                | ticket/<ticket-id>
 [03][-W] Create ticket comment             | ticket/<ticket-id>/comment
 [04][RW] Read/Update ticket links          | ticket/<ticket-id>/links
 [05][R-] Read ticket attachments           | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments
 [06][R-] Read ticket attachment            | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments/<attachment-id>
 [07][R-] Read ticket attachment content    | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments/<attachment-id>/content
 [08][R-] Read ticket history               | ticket/<ticket-id>/history
 [09][R-] Read detailed ticket history      | ticket/<ticket-id>/history?format=l
 [10][R-] Read ticket history item          | ticket/<ticket-id>/history/id/<history-id>
 [11][R-] Read user by id                   | user/<user-id>
 [12][R-] Read user by name                 | user/<user-Name>
 [13][R-] Read queue by id                  | queue/<queue-id>
 [14][R-] Read queue by name                | queue/<queue-Name>
 [15][R-] Search tickets                    | search/ticket?query=<query>&orderby=<sort-order>&format=<format>

Low Level Layer: Examples and Tips
==================================
For Now Only Basic Authentication is supported
----------------------------------------------

::

 from rtkit import RTResource, set_logging, RTResourceError
 import logging

 set_logging('debug')
 logger = logging.getLogger('rtkit')

 resource = RTResource('http://<HOST>/REST/1.0/', (<USER>, <PWD>))

Create ticket
----------------

::

 message = 'My useless\ntext on\nthree lines.'
 content = {
     'Queue': 1,#'', 2
     'Subject' : 'New Ticket',
     'Text' : message.replace('\n', '\n '),
 }
 try:
     response = resource.post(path='ticket/new', payload=content,)
     logger.info(response.parsed)
 except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

::

 #OK
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 1\nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Ticket 17 created.\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 200 Ok
 [INFO] [[('id', 'ticket/17')]]

::

 #MISSING OR MISSPELLED QUEUE
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: \nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Could not create ticket.\n# Could not create ticket. Queue not set\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 400 Could not create ticket. Queue not set
 [ERROR] 400
 [ERROR] 400 Could not create ticket. Queue not set
 [ERROR] []

::

 #NO PERMISSION ON QUEUE
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 2\nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] "RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Could not create ticket.\n# No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'\n\n"
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 400 No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'
 [ERROR] 400
 [ERROR] 400 No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'
 [ERROR] []

Read a ticket
----------------

::

 try:
     response = resource.get(path='ticket/1')
     for r in response.parsed:
         for t in r:
             logger.info(t) except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

::

 #TICKET FOUND
 [DEBUG] GET ticket/1
 [DEBUG] {'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] None
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\nid: ticket/1\nQueue: General\nOwner: Nobody\nCreator: pyrtkit\nSubject: pyrt-create4\nStatus: open\nPriority: 5\nInitialPriority: 0\nFinalPriority: 0\nRequestors:\nCc:\nAdminCc:\nCreated: Sun Jul 03 10:48:57 2011\nStarts: Not set\nStarted: Not set\nDue: Not set\nResolved: Not set\nTold: Wed Jul 06 12:58:00 2011\nLastUpdated: Thu Jul 07 14:42:32 2011\nTimeEstimated: 0\nTimeWorked: 25 minutes\nTimeLeft: 0\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 200 Ok
 [INFO] ('id', 'ticket/1')
 [INFO] ('Queue', 'General')
 [INFO] ('Owner', 'Nobody')
 [INFO] ('Creator', 'pyrtkit')
 [INFO] ('Subject', 'pyrt-create4')
 [INFO] ('Status', 'open')
 [INFO] ('Priority', '5')
 [INFO] ('InitialPriority', '0')
 [INFO] ('FinalPriority', '0')
 [INFO] ('Requestors', '')
 [INFO] ('Cc', '')
 [INFO] ('AdminCc', '')
 [INFO] ('Created', 'Sun Jul 03 10:48:57 2011')
 [INFO] ('Starts', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Started', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Due', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Resolved', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Told', 'Wed Jul 06 12:58:00 2011')
 [INFO] ('LastUpdated', 'Thu Jul 07 14:42:32 2011')
 [INFO] ('TimeEstimated', '0')
 [INFO] ('TimeWorked', '25 minutes')
 [INFO] ('TimeLeft', '0')

::

 #TICKET NOT FOUND
 [DEBUG] GET ticket/100
 [DEBUG] {'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] None
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Ticket 100 does not exist.\n\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 404 Ticket 100 does not exist
 [ERROR] 404
 [ERROR] 404 Ticket 100 does not exist
 [ERROR] []

Edit a ticket or ticket's links
----------------
Ticket (or ticket's links) editing hasn't all-or-nothing behaviour; so it's very difficult to capture errors.
For example trying to change Queue to a not admitted one (or to edit an unknown field) RT will return:

::

 RT/3.8.10 409 Syntax Error

 # queue: You may not create requests in that queue.
 # spam: Unknown field.

 id:
 Subject: Try Edit Ticket
 TimeWorked: 1
 Queue: 2
 Spam: 10

For now rtkit will raise SyntaxError with the errors list in e.response.parsed

::

 [DEBUG] POST ticket/1
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 2\nSpam: 10\nTimeWorked: 1\nSubject: Try Edit Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 409 Syntax Error\n\n# queue: You may not create requests in that queue.\n# spam: Unknown field.\n\nid: \nSubject: Try Edit Ticket\nTimeWorked: 1\nQueue: 2\nSpam: 10\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 409 Syntax Error
 [ERROR] 409
 [ERROR] 409 Syntax Error
 [ERROR] [[('queue', 'You may not create requests in that queue.'), ('spam', 'Unknown field.')]]

Comment on a Ticket with Attachments
------------

Usually your requests will be something like this.

::

 try:
     params = {
         'content' :{
             'Action' : 'comment',
             'Text' : 'Comment with attach',
             'Attachment' : 'x.txt, 140x105.jpg',
         },
         'attachment_1' : file('x.txt'),
         'attachment_2' : file('140x105.jpg'),
     }
     response = resource.post(path='ticket/16/comment', payload=params,)
     for r in response.parsed:
         for t in r:
             logger.info(t)
 except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

References
================
* `Best Practical RT`_
* `Request Tracker Wiki`_

.. _Best Practical RT: http://bestpractical.com/rt/
.. _Request Tracker Wiki: http://requesttracker.wikia.com/wiki/REST

Commit message:

See #1 - added support for cookie-based authentication

README.rst, after:

====================
python-rtkit
====================
`Best Practical RT`_ (Request Tracker) data access python module for REST interface.

This is your survey example:

Installation
================

Rest Api Summary
================
More detailed version: `Request Tracker Wiki`_

::

 [01][-W] Create ticket                     | ticket/new
 [02][RW] Read/Update ticket                | ticket/<ticket-id>
 [03][-W] Create ticket comment             | ticket/<ticket-id>/comment
 [04][RW] Read/Update ticket links          | ticket/<ticket-id>/links
 [05][R-] Read ticket attachments           | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments
 [06][R-] Read ticket attachment            | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments/<attachment-id>
 [07][R-] Read ticket attachment content    | ticket/<ticket-id>/attachments/<attachment-id>/content
 [08][R-] Read ticket history               | ticket/<ticket-id>/history
 [09][R-] Read detailed ticket history      | ticket/<ticket-id>/history?format=l
 [10][R-] Read ticket history item          | ticket/<ticket-id>/history/id/<history-id>
 [11][R-] Read user by id                   | user/<user-id>
 [12][R-] Read user by name                 | user/<user-Name>
 [13][R-] Read queue by id                  | queue/<queue-id>
 [14][R-] Read queue by name                | queue/<queue-Name>
 [15][R-] Search tickets                    | search/ticket?query=<query>&orderby=<sort-order>&format=<format>

Low Level Layer: Examples and Tips
==================================

For Basic Authentication
------------------------

::

 from rtkit import RTResource, set_logging, RTResourceError
 import logging

 set_logging('debug')
 logger = logging.getLogger('rtkit')

 resource = RTResource('http://<HOST>/REST/1.0/', (<USER>, <PWD>))

For Cookie-based Authentication
-------------------------------

::

 resource = RTResource('http://<HOST>/REST/1.0/', (<USER>, <PWD>), auth_type='cookie')

Create ticket
----------------

::

 message = 'My useless\ntext on\nthree lines.'
 content = {
     'Queue': 1,#'', 2
     'Subject' : 'New Ticket',
     'Text' : message.replace('\n', '\n '),
 }
 try:
     response = resource.post(path='ticket/new', payload=content,)
     logger.info(response.parsed)
 except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

::

 #OK
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 1\nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Ticket 17 created.\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 200 Ok
 [INFO] [[('id', 'ticket/17')]]

::

 #MISSING OR MISSPELLED QUEUE
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: \nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Could not create ticket.\n# Could not create ticket. Queue not set\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 400 Could not create ticket. Queue not set
 [ERROR] 400
 [ERROR] 400 Could not create ticket. Queue not set
 [ERROR] []

::

 #NO PERMISSION ON QUEUE
 [DEBUG] POST ticket/new
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 2\nText: My useless\n text on\n three lines.\nSubject: New Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] "RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Could not create ticket.\n# No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'\n\n"
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 400 No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'
 [ERROR] 400
 [ERROR] 400 No permission to create tickets in the queue '___Approvals'
 [ERROR] []

Read a ticket
----------------

::

 try:
     response = resource.get(path='ticket/1')
     for r in response.parsed:
         for t in r:
             logger.info(t) except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

::

 #TICKET FOUND
 [DEBUG] GET ticket/1
 [DEBUG] {'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] None
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\nid: ticket/1\nQueue: General\nOwner: Nobody\nCreator: pyrtkit\nSubject: pyrt-create4\nStatus: open\nPriority: 5\nInitialPriority: 0\nFinalPriority: 0\nRequestors:\nCc:\nAdminCc:\nCreated: Sun Jul 03 10:48:57 2011\nStarts: Not set\nStarted: Not set\nDue: Not set\nResolved: Not set\nTold: Wed Jul 06 12:58:00 2011\nLastUpdated: Thu Jul 07 14:42:32 2011\nTimeEstimated: 0\nTimeWorked: 25 minutes\nTimeLeft: 0\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 200 Ok
 [INFO] ('id', 'ticket/1')
 [INFO] ('Queue', 'General')
 [INFO] ('Owner', 'Nobody')
 [INFO] ('Creator', 'pyrtkit')
 [INFO] ('Subject', 'pyrt-create4')
 [INFO] ('Status', 'open')
 [INFO] ('Priority', '5')
 [INFO] ('InitialPriority', '0')
 [INFO] ('FinalPriority', '0')
 [INFO] ('Requestors', '')
 [INFO] ('Cc', '')
 [INFO] ('AdminCc', '')
 [INFO] ('Created', 'Sun Jul 03 10:48:57 2011')
 [INFO] ('Starts', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Started', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Due', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Resolved', 'Not set')
 [INFO] ('Told', 'Wed Jul 06 12:58:00 2011')
 [INFO] ('LastUpdated', 'Thu Jul 07 14:42:32 2011')
 [INFO] ('TimeEstimated', '0')
 [INFO] ('TimeWorked', '25 minutes')
 [INFO] ('TimeLeft', '0')

::

 #TICKET NOT FOUND
 [DEBUG] GET ticket/100
 [DEBUG] {'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] None
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 200 Ok\n\n# Ticket 100 does not exist.\n\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 404 Ticket 100 does not exist
 [ERROR] 404
 [ERROR] 404 Ticket 100 does not exist
 [ERROR] []

Edit a ticket or ticket's links
----------------
Ticket (or ticket's links) editing hasn't all-or-nothing behaviour; so it's very difficult to capture errors.
For example trying to change Queue to a not admitted one (or to edit an unknown field) RT will return:

::

 RT/3.8.10 409 Syntax Error

 # queue: You may not create requests in that queue.
 # spam: Unknown field.

 id:
 Subject: Try Edit Ticket
 TimeWorked: 1
 Queue: 2
 Spam: 10

For now rtkit will raise SyntaxError with the errors list in e.response.parsed

::

 [DEBUG] POST ticket/1
 [DEBUG] {'Content-Type': 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'Accept': 'text/plain', 'User-Agent': 'pyRTkit/0.0.1'}
 [DEBUG] u'content=Queue: 2\nSpam: 10\nTimeWorked: 1\nSubject: Try Edit Ticket\n'
 [INFO] HTTP_STATUS: 200 OK
 [DEBUG] 'RT/3.8.10 409 Syntax Error\n\n# queue: You may not create requests in that queue.\n# spam: Unknown field.\n\nid: \nSubject: Try Edit Ticket\nTimeWorked: 1\nQueue: 2\nSpam: 10\n\n'
 [INFO] RESOURCE_STATUS: 409 Syntax Error
 [ERROR] 409
 [ERROR] 409 Syntax Error
 [ERROR] [[('queue', 'You may not create requests in that queue.'), ('spam', 'Unknown field.')]]

Comment on a Ticket with Attachments
------------

Usually your requests will be something like this.

::

 try:
     params = {
         'content' :{
             'Action' : 'comment',
             'Text' : 'Comment with attach',
             'Attachment' : 'x.txt, 140x105.jpg',
         },
         'attachment_1' : file('x.txt'),
         'attachment_2' : file('140x105.jpg'),
     }
     response = resource.post(path='ticket/16/comment', payload=params,)
     for r in response.parsed:
         for t in r:
             logger.info(t)
 except RTResourceError as e:
     logger.error(e.response.status_int)
     logger.error(e.response.status)
     logger.error(e.response.parsed)

References
================
* `Best Practical RT`_
* `Request Tracker Wiki`_

.. _Best Practical RT: http://bestpractical.com/rt/
.. _Request Tracker Wiki: http://requesttracker.wikia.com/wiki/REST
